Wordpress multisite (#4610)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: sites/upsun/src/get-started/stacks/wordpress/multisite.md

---
title: Deploy WordPress Multisite on {{% vendor/name %}}
sidebarTitle: "WordPress Multisite"
weight: 1
description: |
    Complete the last required steps to successfully deploy a WordPress Multisite on Upsun.
---

{{< note theme="info" >}}

Before you start, check out the [{{% vendor/name %}} demo app](https://console.upsun.com/projects/create-project)
and the main [Getting started guide](/get-started/here/_index.md).
These resources provide all the core concepts and common commands you need to know before using the following materials.

{{< /note >}}

For WordPress Multisite to successfully deploy and operate, **after completing the [Getting started guide](/get-started/here/_index.md)**,

> and have a working WordPress site based on one of the other WordPress guides see **Assumptions**, you still need to make

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> a few changes to your {{% vendor/name %}} configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Please note that these changes must only be made **after completing the [Getting started guide](/get-started/here/_index.md)**. Once the changes are made, you will have a working WordPress site (see **Assumptions** to read the WordPress guides and understand what your working WordPress site will be based on).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that these changes must only be made **after completing the [Getting started guide](/get-started/here/_index.md)**. You should also already have a working WordPress site (see **Assumptions** for the WordPress guides your WordPress site should be based on).
```

{{% guides/requirements name="WordPress" %}}

{{< note theme="info" title="Assumptions" >}}

There are many ways you can set up a [WordPress Multisite](https://developer.wordpress.org/advanced-administration/multisite/)

> or {{% vendor/name %}} project. The instructions on this page were designed based on the following assumptions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or {{% vendor/name %}} project. The instructions on this page are based on the following assumptions:
```

location as follows:

```yaml {configFile="app"}
applications:
  myapp:
    <snip>
    web:
      locations:
        "/":
          <snip>
          rules:
            ^/license\.text$:
              allow: false
            ^/readme\.html$:
              allow: false
            '^/([_0-9a-zA-Z-]+/)?wp-(?<wproot>[a-z\-]+).php$':
              allow: true
              scripts: true
              passthru: '/wp-$wproot.php'
            # Allows directory-based multisites to still access the wp-admin and wp-include locations
            '^/([_0-9a-zA-Z-]+/)?(?<adminrewrite>wp-(admin|includes).*)':
              allow: true
              scripts: true
              passthru: '/$adminrewrite'
            '^/([_0-9a-zA-Z-]+)/wp-content/(?<content>.*)':
              allow: true
              scripts: false
              passthru: '/wp-content/$content'
              expires: 1w
```

## 2. Update the database during the deploy hook

The domain(s) of your multisite are stored in the database itself. This creates a challenge in a system like Upsun where
you often create [preview environments](/glossary.html#preview-environment) dynamically during development. To ensure

> the database for your preview environments are updated with the correct domains, we have created a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the database for your preview environments is updated with the correct domains, we have created a
```

Reviewer: I had a little back and forth with this one because we're talking about a database, which is singular (therefore 'is'), but we're also talking about multiple preview environments (therefore 'are'). But the database is the subject of the sentence so i'll stick with singular 'is'.

        wp package install upsun/wp-ms-dbu
        wp package update upsun/wp-ms-dbu
```
To instruct the package to update your database with the relevant domains for the preview environment, locate the
`deploy` section and update it as follows:

```yaml {configFile="app"}
applications:
  myapp:
    <snip>
    hooks:
      deploy: |
        set -eux
        # we need the main production url
        PRODURL=$(echo $PLATFORM_ROUTES | base64 --decode | jq -r --arg app "${PLATFORM_APPLICATION_NAME}" '[.[] | select(.primary == true and .type == "upstream" and .upstream == $app )] | first | .production_url')
        if [ 'production' != "${PLATFORM_ENVIRONMENT_TYPE}" ] &&  wp site list --format=count --url="${PRODURL}" >/dev/null 2>&1; then
          echo "Updating the database...";
          wp ms-dbu update --url="${PRODURL}"
        else
          echo "Database appears to already be updated. Skipping.";
        fi
        wp cache flush
        wp core update-db
```

## 3. wp-config.php

Once our multisite has been set up, we need to expose additional pieces of information inside our `wp-config.php` file.

> In your wp-config.php file, right above the section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your wp-config.php file, right above the section outlined below:
```

if ( ! defined( 'ABSPATH' ) ) {
  define( 'ABSPATH', dirname( __FILE__ ) . '/' );
}
```

add the following:

```php {location="wp-config.php"}
/**
 * Multisite support
 */
define('WP_ALLOW_MULTISITE', true); //enables the Network setup panel in Tools
define('MULTISITE', false); //instructs WordPress to run in multisite mode

if( MULTISITE && WP_ALLOW_MULTISITE) {
	define('SUBDOMAIN_INSTALL', false); // does the instance contain subdirectory sites (false) or subdomain/multiple domain sites (true)
	define('DOMAIN_CURRENT_SITE', parse_url(filter_var(getenv('DOMAIN_CURRENT_SITE'),FILTER_VALIDATE_URL),PHP_URL_HOST));
	define('PATH_CURRENT_SITE', '/'); //path to the WordPress site if it isn't the root of the site (e.g. https://foo.com/blog/)
	define('SITE_ID_CURRENT_SITE', 1); //main/primary site ID
	define('BLOG_ID_CURRENT_SITE', 1); //main/primary/parent blog ID

	/**
	 * we have a sub/multidomain multisite, and the site currently being requested is not the default domain, so we'll
	 * need to set COOKIE_DOMAIN to the domain being requested
	 */
	if (SUBDOMAIN_INSTALL && $site_host !== DOMAIN_CURRENT_SITE) {
		define('COOKIE_DOMAIN',$site_host);
	}
}
```

> where `SUBDOMAIN_INSTALL` is set to `true` if your multisite is a sub/multi-domain site, or `false` if you will be

Reviewer: I'm not really sure I understand this paragraph? Is it part of the code snippet that users must add to the config file? It begins with a lower case 'where' so I wonder if it's a conditional statement. If not, it might need to be reworded a little?

> setting up a subdirectory-based multisite. Note that `MULTISITE` is currently set to `false`; we will update his once

Reviewer: ```suggestion
setting up a subdirectory-based multisite. Note that `MULTISITE` is currently set to `false`; we will update this once
```

Author: DOH! I saw that one the other day and forgot to go back and fix it before you spotted it! 😆

   {{% vendor/cli %}} push -y
   ```

<!--
map_values(select(.primary == true and .type == "upstream" and .upstream == "app" )) | keys | .[0] | if (.[-1:] == "/") then (.[0:-1]) else . end
to_entries[] | select(.value.primary == true and .value.type == "upstream" and .value.upstream == "app") | if (.key[-1:] == "/") then (.key[0:-1]) else .key end
-->

## 5. Network (Multisite) Setup
Adding `define('WP_ALLOW_MULTISITE', true);` will enable the **Network Setup** item in your **Tools menu**. Use that
menu item to go to the **Create a Network of WordPress Sites** screen. Follow the instructions on this screen and click
the **Install** button. You can ignore the instructions on the resulting screen.

{{< note >}}
Alternatively, you can access a terminal session in the app container (`{{% vendor/cli %}} ssh`), and use
`wp core multisite-convert` to install the multisite.
{{< /note >}}

## 6. Final change to wp-config.php
Return to your wp-config.php file and change

```php {location="wp-config.php"}
define('MULTISITE', false);
```
to
```php {location="wp-config.php"}
define('MULTISITE', true);
```

> Add and commit the changes, and push to {{% vendor/name %}}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add and commit the changes, then push to {{% vendor/name %}}:
```

```shell {location="Terminal"}
git add wp-config.php
git commit -m "set WordPress to run in multisite mode."
{{% vendor/cli %}} push -y
```

> Once the site has finished deploying, you can return the Network Admin --> Sites area of wp-admin and begin adding your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the site has finished deploying, you can return to the Network Admin --> Sites area of wp-admin and begin adding your
```

[Bedrock](https://docs.upsun.com/get-started/stacks/wordpress/bedrock.html), or
[WordPress Vanilla](/get-started/stacks/wordpress/vanilla.html) guides.
- WordPress is installed in the web/public root of the site and not in a subdirectory of its own (or in the default of
`wp` if you set up a Bedrock-based site)
- You know if you are creating a
[subdirectory-based multisite or a sub/multi-domain based multisite](https://developer.wordpress.org/advanced-administration/multisite/prepare-network/#types-of-multisite-network).
{{< /note >}}

## 1. Add rewrite rules to your root location

If you are setting up a subdirectory-based multisite, or you followed the Bedrock guide, the following rewrite rules are
**required**. If you followed the Composer based or Vanilla guides and are unsure, or if you think you might convert to
a subdirectory-based multisite later, you can add these rules to a sub/multi-domain multisite without any negative
effects.

Locate the `web:locations` section in your `.upsun/config.yaml` file and update the rules section for your root (`/`)
location as follows:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- vale off -->
```

              scripts: true
              passthru: '/$adminrewrite'
            '^/([_0-9a-zA-Z-]+)/wp-content/(?<content>.*)':
              allow: true
              scripts: false
              passthru: '/wp-content/$content'
              expires: 1w

<--->

+++
title=Bedrock
highlight=yaml
+++

applications:
  myapp:
    <snip>
    web:
      locations:
        "/":
          <snip>
          rules:
            ^/license\.text$:
              allow: false
            ^/readme\.html$:
              allow: false
            '^/(?!wp/)([_0-9a-zA-Z-]+/)?wp-(?<wproot>[a-z\-]+).php$':
              allow: true
              scripts: true
              passthru: '/wp/wp-$wproot.php'
            # Allows directory-based multisites to still access the wp-admin and wp-include locations
            '^/(?!wp/)([_0-9a-zA-Z-]+/)?(?<adminrewrite>wp-(admin|includes).*)':
              allow: true
              scripts: true
              passthru: '/wp/$adminrewrite'
            '^/([_0-9a-zA-Z-]+)/wp-content/(?<content>.*)':
              allow: true
              scripts: false
              passthru: '/wp-content/$content'
              expires: 1w

{{< /codetabs >}}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- vale on -->

```
